# Flashing Firmware - Server One (2023)

Start9's 2023 Server One was the Intel NUC11ATKC4, whose BIOS was refered to as "ATJSLCPX" by Intel, and whose latest release was AT0043.cap before they officially discontinued support for the product line.

## Prerequisites

- A monitor and keyboard.
- A USB stick, formatted FAT32.

## Instructions

1. Format a USB stick using the FAT32 filesystem
1. Download [Intel_ATJSLCPX-AT0043.cap](assets/binaries/Intel_ATJSLCPX-AT0043.cap) to the USB stick

   ```admonish info

    If you wish to confirm the integrity of your download before you flash it, here is the sha256sum:

    `e72c356cdefa90486c031b7bd3d616cfd4e34e76dffb9f3ba72928355db3185b  Intel_ATJSLCPX-AT0043.cap`
   ```

   ### Ready your Server One (2023):

1. Insert the power cable, video cable, keyboard & mouse, and the USB stick with the ATJSLCPX BIOS into the Server One
1. Press the power button to turn the machine on. In about 20 seconds, it will begin to boot.
1. Continually press F7 to get to the BIOS update screen
1. Press enter 3 times in succession to update the BIOS by selecting and confirming your intention to flash `Intel_ATJSLCPX-AT0043.cap` from the USB stick

1. Power the unit off when it reboots and remove the BIOS USB stick
1. Power the unit on and continually press F2 to enter the bios settings.
1. Arrow up, then right to the "Power" menu (near the top right)
1. Arrow to "Secondary Power Settings" at the bottom.
1. Arrow down to "After Power Failure": Power On
1. Arrow to "Wake on LAN from S4/S5": Stay Off
1. Arrow up, then over to the "Boot" menu item (top right)
1. Arrow down to "Boot Priority"
1. Set all 4 UEFI PXE & HTTP Network boot options to "Disabled"
1. Arrow down to "Boot USB Devices First" and enable (check) it
1. Hit F10 to save changes and exit, followed by "Yes".
