src/user-manual/initial-setup.md, before:

# Initial Setup

1. Connect your server to power and Ethernet. If you do not have access to Ethernet, click [here](../help/common-issues.md#i-do-not-have-access-to-ethernet).

1. From a computer connected to the same Local Area Network (LAN) as your server, open a browser and visit <a href="http://start.local" target="_blank">http://start.local</a>.

   ![Setup](./assets/setup.png)

1. Select "Start Fresh" and follow the on-screen instructions. If you need to recover existing data, see below.

## Recover Options

There are three options for setting up StartOS while also keeping existing data.

- [Use Existing Drive](#use-existing-drive)
- [Transfer](#transfer)
- [Restore from Backup (Disaster Recovery)](#restore-from-backup-disaster-recovery)

![Setup](./assets/setup-recover.png)

### Use Existing Drive

Select this option if:

1. You have re-flashed StartOS and want to resumt normal operation on the same drive and server.

1. You are physically transplanting your data drive to a new server.

### Transfer

Select this option if you are transferring your data from one drive to another.

### Restore from Backup (Disaster Recovery)

Select this option _only_ if your StartOS data drive has been lost or corrupted. This is for disaster recovery only.

Commit message:

Clarity on server/client and no need for monitor

src/user-manual/initial-setup.md, after:

# Initial Setup

1. Connect your server to power and Ethernet. If you do not have access to Ethernet, click [here](../help/common-issues.md#i-do-not-have-access-to-ethernet). You do *not* need to connect a monitor or keyboard to your server.

1. From a client computer connected to the same Local Area Network (LAN) as your server, open a browser and visit <a href="http://start.local" target="_blank">http://start.local</a>. This client computer can be a laptop, desktop or mobile device.

   ![Setup](./assets/setup.png)

1. Select "Start Fresh" and follow the on-screen instructions. If you need to recover existing data, see below.

## Recover Options

There are three options for setting up StartOS while also keeping existing data.

- [Use Existing Drive](#use-existing-drive)
- [Transfer](#transfer)
- [Restore from Backup (Disaster Recovery)](#restore-from-backup-disaster-recovery)

![Setup](./assets/setup-recover.png)

### Use Existing Drive

Select this option if:

1. You have re-flashed StartOS and want to resumt normal operation on the same drive and server.

1. You are physically transplanting your data drive to a new server.

### Transfer

Select this option if you are transferring your data from one drive to another.

### Restore from Backup (Disaster Recovery)

Select this option _only_ if your StartOS data drive has been lost or corrupted. This is for disaster recovery only.
