# Flashing StartOS - X86_64 / ARM

This guide is for flashing StartOS to a USB drive, then installing it onto an x86_64 device, which includes most desktops, laptops, and mini PCs. For an up-to-date list of known-good hardware, please check out this [forum post](https://community.start9.com/t/known-good-hardware-master-list-hardware-capable-of-running-startos/).

```admonish tip

To install StartOS on an ARM device, simply replace all x86_64 references in this guide.
```

#### Contents

- [Download](#download)
- [Flash](#flash)
- [Install](#install)

## Download

1.  Visit the <a href="https://github.com/Start9Labs/start-os/releases/latest" target="_blank">Github release page</a> to find the latest version of StartOS.

1.  At the bottom of the page, under "Assets", download the `x86_64.iso` file or the `x86_64-nonfree.iso` file. We recommend installing the `x86_64.iso` image first. Then, if it is not compatible with your hardware, install the `x86_64-nonfree.iso` image.

    - **x86_64.iso**: This image is 100% open source, containing **no** proprietary firmware or drivers. It will only work on certain hardware devices, such as the Start9 Server Pure.

    - **x86_64-nonfree.iso**: this image contains non-free (closed source) firmware and drivers, primarily for display and wireless capabilities.

1.  Verify the SHA256 checksum against the one listed on GitHub (optional but recommended).

    - **Mac**. Open a terminal window and run the following, replacing `startos-0..._x86_64` with the path/name of the file:

          openssl dgst -sha256 startos-0..._x86_64

    - **Linux** Open a terminal window and run the following, replacing `startos-0..._x86_64` with the path/name of the file:

          sha256sum startos-0..._x86_64

    - **Windows** Open a PowerShell and run the following, replacing `Downloads` with the directory where you downloaded the file, and `startos-0..._x86_64` with the name of the file:

          cd Downloads
          Get-FileHash startos-0..._x86_64

## Flash

1. Download and install <a href="https://www.balena.io/etcher" target="_blank">balenaEtcher</a> onto your Linux, Mac, or Windows computer.

1. Insert your USB drive into your computer.

1. Open balenaEtcher.

1. Click "Select Image" and select the `.iso` image you just downloaded.

1. Click "Select Target" and select your microSD card.

   ```admonish warning

   BE ABSOLUTELY CERTAIN you have selected the correct target USB flash drive. Whatever target you select will be **COMPLETELY ERASED**!!
   ```

1. Click "Flash!". You may be asked to approve the unusually large disk target and/or enter your password. Both are normal.

## Install

1. Remove the newly-flashed USB drive from your computer and plug it into your server. Choose the fastest available USB 3.0+ port - typically this is blue or labeled "SS" (SuperSpeed).

1. Power on your server, booting from USB.

   ```admonish tip

   Occasionally, you may need to make some changes in your BIOS, such as turning off Secure Boot, or allowing USB boot for install. See the <a href="https://community.start9.com" target="_blank">Community Hub</a> for guides or to get help.
   ```

1. The StartOS install wizard will now be available at `http://start.local`. You can also use a monitor, keyboard, and mouse. This is known as "Kiosk Mode".

1. Choose "Re-Install" to preserve existing StartOS data, or "Factory Reset" to start fresh. After install is complete, you will be prompted to remove the USB drive and refresh the page.
