src/service-guides/README.md, before:

# 📱 Service Guides

- [Bitcoin / Electrs](bitcoin/)
  - [Wallet Integrations](bitcoin/wallet-integrations.md)
  - [Blockchain Migration](bitcoin/blockchain-migration.md)
- [Jellyfin](jellyfin/)
  - [Web Application](jellyfin/web-application.md)
  - [Mobile Apps](jellyfin/mobile-apps.md)
  - [Desktop Apps](jellyfin/desktop-apps.md)
  - [Other Apps](jellyfin/other-apps.md)
- [Lightning](lightning/)
  - [Opening Channels](lightning/opening-channels.md)
  - [Getting Inbound Liquidity](lightning/getting-inbound-liquidity.md)
  - [Connecting to Core Lightning](lightning/cln/)
  - [Connecting to LND](lightning/lnd/)
  - [Using LNbits](lightning/lnbits.md)
- [Matrix](matrix/)
- [Nextcloud](nextcloud/)
  - [Device Setup](nextcloud/nextcloud-setup/)
  - [Apps & Integrations](nextcloud/nextcloud-apps/)
- [Nostr](nostr/)
  - [Nostr RS Relay](nostr/nostr-rs-relay.md)
  - [noStrudel](nostr/nostrudel.md)
- [Vaultwarden](vaultwarden/)
  - [Initial Setup](vaultwarden/vaultwarden-setup.md)
  - [Client Setup](vaultwarden/bitwarden-setup.md)
  - [Organizations](vaultwarden/vaultwarden-org.md)

Commit message:

Basic layout for service guide

src/service-guides/README.md, after:

# 📱 Service Guides

Some services that run on StartOS have guides that go beyond the simple "install and config" instructions that accompany each service. This can be because there's a prerequisite to learn/setup first, because there are client applications you can connect or because more than one service can work together to achieve funtionality that goes beyond the individual service.

## Bitcoin
  - [Bitcoin / Electrs](service-guides/bitcoin/README.md)
    - [Bitcoin Core](https://github.com/Start9Labs/bitcoin-core-startos/blob/update/040/docs/instructions%2Emd)
    - [Bitcoin Knots](https://github.com/Start9Labs/bitcoin-knots-startos/blob/update/040/docs/instructions%2Emd)
    - [Electrs](https://github.com/Start9Labs/electrs-startos/blob/update/040/docs/instructions%2Emd)
    - [Blockchain Migration](service-guides/bitcoin/blockchain-migration.md)

## Lightning
- [Lightning](lightning/)
  - [Opening Channels](lightning/opening-channels.md)
  - [Getting Inbound Liquidity](lightning/getting-inbound-liquidity.md)
  - [Connecting to Core Lightning](lightning/cln/)
  - [Connecting to LND](lightning/lnd/)
  - [Using LNbits](lightning/lnbits.md)

## Jellyfin
- [Jellyfin](jellyfin/)
  - [Web Application](jellyfin/web-application.md)
  - [Mobile Apps](jellyfin/mobile-apps.md)
  - [Desktop Apps](jellyfin/desktop-apps.md)
  - [Other Apps](jellyfin/other-apps.md)

## Nexcloud
- [Nextcloud](nextcloud/)
  - [Device Setup](nextcloud/nextcloud-setup/)
  - [Apps & Integrations](nextcloud/nextcloud-apps/)

## Nostr
- [Nostr](nostr/)
  - [Nostr RS Relay](nostr/nostr-rs-relay.md)
  - [noStrudel](nostr/nostrudel.md)

## Vaultwarden
- [Vaultwarden](vaultwarden/)
  - [Initial Setup](vaultwarden/vaultwarden-setup.md)
  - [Client Setup](vaultwarden/bitwarden-setup.md)
  - [Organizations](vaultwarden/vaultwarden-org.md)
